everyone just another question and
answer video this question comes from
lean dirt 173 they would like to know
some more specifics in the Halloween
Prelude of the 1030 109 Prelude you'd
like to see some of the visuals more up
close and more specific so this is for
lean dirt 173 and the 1030 109 Prelude
so it's a very visual piece there are a
lot of symbols involved and the first
symbol is called the simple front flip
this is just a simple loop with an arrow
out of it and it works like this you're
able to make contact and then flip
straight up okay so the first measure
excuse me the first count goes so you
toss the beat of the stick up over and
let it rotate around your palm like this
the stick should not leave your palm
okay as opposed to the as opposed to the
simple half flip where you do actually
leave the palm and the stick do actually
separate so simple half flip and then
simple front flip is this sort of looks
like looks like you're throwing it but
you're not alright and you can do this
with both hands I think it occurs in
both hands so that is the simple front
flip the next thing we have is
the double flip which occurs in the left
hand and the way I do this one is like
this so my being of the stick comes over
and I wrap it around and bring it down
under I've seen people do this other
ways a lot of people I see start under
which is just fine with me just so long
as there's a long flipping gesture so
like that is how I do it but if there
was an easier way for you I think it
would be fine but the other thing
happening in that beat is the right hand
zigzag this is the symbol that looks
like this jagged up and down and it's
just like this you just kind of zigzag
across the drumhead no fancy just like
that so again simple back to front and
then front to back again this should
change your positions this whole piece
is sort of about the idea of backwards
and the reason it's I wrote it on
Halloween it's because everything sort
of backwards you know all the sudden bad
is good and evil is fun and all these
things so anyway the whole piece is sort
of about backwards but the theme kind of
becomes backwards and there's tension
and release and there's the front of the
state the back of the stick the center
and the edge and all these things sort
of what this about so yeah this visual
is sort of what takes us to that part of
the theme but the sticks version our
back to front is done with this simple
simple back foot so we've got to be
double flip the simple front flip this
exhibit and the half flip like that so
the whole first two bars go
third bar nothing
flip wise and it's the fourth bar there
is a new flip it is called the simple
back flip is just the opposite of the
simple front flip you go to like a year
and then scoop under so before we went
them away from ourselves this time go
towards our body separate and it does
rotate around the inside of your palm
just opposite of the front flip so front
flip and back flip like that so the
whole let's see the whole first phrase
is and that is that the next new thing
is in measure 14 we see what I call
those those are called your flat tosses
in the instructions so you throw the
stick as horizontally as you can
straight up and then catch it
horizontally as well just like the
simple back flips it's important that
you finish in time so the back flips
head so more than the actual visual of
the toss or the flip it's about the
stopping of it and the sound matching
with the the abrupt stop of it so
measure 14 is straight up catch it in
time so the other ones straight up catch
it in time and then the last one of
course catch like that so let's see I'm
just back up to measure 13 this is a
variation on the theme again with
measure 14 in it so here's 13 and 14
those are all of the flips the last
thing is the rim role in this piece and
again this is another the Matic way to
have back to front because we use the
roll back and forth on the rim like this
the first place this occurs is measure
66 we have this happens a lot in in both
hands we have so this is a you know it's
a trick that's been used in other pieces
as well if your regular striking spot
okay just like you're doing a regular
stroke and then you're simply going to
let the backend fall into place and this
should cut it right in half as far as
time okay and that is everything visual
in this piece so thanks for the question
and hopefully if more questions come
I'll try to answer them so thanks
everyone and we'll see you around the
Internet